	In order to use the android app, you must first have the Android SDK Tools inside your computer, together with the Android eclipse plugin. The Android ADT bundle, which includes both the SDK tools and a version of eclipse with the plugin, can be found at http://developer.android.com/sdk/installing/bundle.html. Once everything has been set up, open the “Recipes” project in eclipse. To run the app, make sure that either an Android phone has been connected to your computer through a USB cable and set up in development mode, or you have an Android Virtual Device set up and ready (to make the virtual device faster, increase RAM size to 768-1024MB, heap size to 128MB, and enable “Use Host GPU”). Also, make sure that the device/computer is connected to the internet to make full use of the features in the app! Highlight the root folder in the project in the project navigator and click the green Run button in the toolbar (or use the hotkey CTRL+F11). This will run the app on the Android device you have connected to the computer, or the virtual device that you have set up.

	Once in the app, a login screen will appear. Type in “jharvard” as the username and “crimson” as the password (This is a test account, but commenting and adding recipes will still work). This will take you past the login screen, and the app will start syncing recipes from the server to the phone. Once syncing has finished, you will be able to see the home screen. There are now several options that you can choose from. On the home screen itself, a list of all the recipes can be viewed. You can order the recipes by “Latest” or “Top” (ordered by recipes with the most likes -- “noms” -- first) by clicking the combo box (what Android calls “spinners”) on the action bar at the top. You can refresh the recipes by clicking the refresh button, and you can add a new recipe by click the new recipe button. Clicking the drawer button on the top left corner of the screen will open up the drawer, where you can navigate to the About page (and see a picture of us from the CS50 Hackathon), or you can Logout and be placed back at the login screen.

	If you click any of the recipes in the list in the home screen, the View Recipe Activity will show up, where more details on the recipe, such as ingredients and instructions, as well as any comments made by other users, can be viewed. You can also add comments by clicking the comment button on the action bar. A dialog box will popup, where you can then input your comments, and clicking OK will post the comment to the recipe. You can also share the recipe with your friends and family by clicking the share button on the top right corner of the screen.

	When clicking the add recipe button, a dialog will pop up and ask you for an action to create your recipe. You can either create your recipe by taking a new picture with your camera, or you can choose an existing picture in your gallery. Doing either action will take you to the Create Recipe Activity, where you can add the recipe title, as well as add, edit, and delete ingredients and instructions for your recipe. Once you are done, click the “Create!” button. Doing so will take you back to the home screen. It might take a while for your recipe to appear on the home screen (clicking the refresh button could be helpful!) as a background thread will be running to upload your recipe to the server. Once it has been uploaded, your recipe will appear on the home screen and it will also be viewable by others using the app.
